### Present(s)
Al Martin (Akena), 
Andrew Wilson (Silicon Australia Lab),
Axel Heider (Codasip),
Barry Spinney (Individual),
George Angelopoulos (Individual),
Jeff Scheel (RVIA),
Ken Dockser (Tenstorrent),
Luis Fiolhais (SemiDynamics),
Markku-Juhani O. Saarinen (Tampere),
Nicolas Brunie (SiFive),
Richard Newell (Microchip Technology),
Victor Lu (Individual),
Yann Loisel (SiFive)

The meeting is shared with other cryptography related task group (vector crypto and high-assurance).
Those minutes cover all subject being discussed during this meeting.

### Misc 

- PQC task group now has an official chair (Markku) and a vice chair (Nicolas), announcement should be made by Security HC soon.
- Suggestion to cancel the TG meeting the week of the summit (Thursday Nov 9th)
- RISC-V Summit coming up
   - informal meetings scheduled during member day: Room 202 11-12am on Monday Nov 6th 2023



### Vector Crypto

- Task group is winding down as spec was ratified.
- Some outstanding items (waved) will need to be addressed [SAIL, ACT, Unified Discovery]
- Need to communicate on OpenSSL support
   - SiFive recently merged some optimizations https://github.com/openssl/openssl/pull/21923
 

### Vector Crypto fast track

- Small presentation will be done during RISC-V Summit (NA) member day
- Hope to gather more feedback then
- Next theoretical step is a submission to RVIA architecture committee (to kick-off fast track process)

### Post Quantum Crypto

- Markku is reconsidering some of the submitted instruction, in particular modular instructions for (I)NTT.
- Markku working on quantitative analysis of the proposal (to be presented in details at the Summit).

### High Assurance Crypto

- call for chair/vice-chair for High-Assurance TG  has been sent (deadline Nov 7th)
   - Richard has applied for chair
- Discussing intent/objective of High Assurance spec, in particular around key wrapping
- Richard will schedule another specific technical discussion on high assurance to make progress

  
### Other technical subjects

- Interaction between security model and crypto TG
   - Markku being involved in this discussion
   - Harmonized policies for algorithms and key length are critical for the security model

- RISC-V SoC platform mandates that Zkr is required
   - Is the SoC spec the right place for that or should it be specified in a security model/document ?


- Discussion on Zicond
   - The need/request for fully DIEL (Data Independent Execution Latency) when `Zkt` is enforced was raised late in the process and lead to a last minute spec change
   - Some members of the group feel like the crypto TGs were not sufficiently involved (although they will have missed the impact of this choice)
   - Should the process of reviewing new ISA extensions with crypto/security impact be reconsidered to ensure the crypto TG can share its opinion on timing determinism of new instructions before they are ratified
   - Need involvement   of cryptographers / security expert / software stack owner


Next meeting is scheduled Nov 2nd 2023

### Actions

- [ ] prepare communication on OpenSSL support for vector crypto (Nicolas, Ken, someone at Rivos ?)
