Minutes of RISC-V crypto task group(s) meeting of December 7th 2023


# Presents

Al Martin (Akena),
Allen Baum (Esperanto),
Andrey Matyukov (Syntacore),
Barry Spinney (Individual),
Luis Fiolhais (SemiDynamics),
Markku-Juhani Saarinen (Tampere),
Nicolas Brunie (SiFive),
G. Richard Newell (Microchip Technology),
Tolga Yalcin (Qualcomm),
Victor Lu (Individual),


# Misc

- General question on crypto support in RISC-V
- [carry over] Some clean-up is still required for vector crypto (listed in the vector crypto ratification plan spreadsheet https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1Trwd7mr91iKlOi7cVlmJaoulw1ZGAAYR8ER7-pRufyI/edit?usp=sharing).
- Next meeting is Dec 14th, then 21st. The last meeting of the year, Dec 28th, will be cancelled.
- Poll on meeting time shows that current meeting time is preferred (which would correspond to an unpriv slot).
(Richard will send an email to unpriv to negociate the time slot).

# High Assurance

TG approved with Richard Newell as chair and Markku-Juhani Saarinen as vice-chair.

# Post Quantum Cryptography

- work in progress PQC ISA extension(s) will focus on vector instructions (no scalar support intended)  
- Discussion on Keccak state size and in particular impact on VLEN=128 implementation:

If we need instructions that manipulates the full 1600-bit Keccak state, this may put a lot of constraint on implementation with "smaller" VLEN (e.g. 128) which are legal implementations in most RISC-V profiles.
For example RVA mandates support for the V extension which requires `VLEN >= 128`.


* Keccack 1600-bit state is organized as a `5x5` matrix of 64-bit values
* Currently Keccak implementation on scalar RISC-V is reasonably fast and requires the execution of about 4000 instructions
* How could we organize the Keccack state on the vector side
    * as 13 128-bit element groups ?
    * as 5 512-bit element groups ?
    * Using large LMUL to fit the full state.
    * Using fixed register groups output.
* One of Keccak constrain is that each round touches all of the data (1600-bit )
* Not possible to decompose the round into smaller operations without losing a lot of efficiency
* We may even want to target multi-round instruction
    * should we go up to 24 rounds per instruction ? (standard use case)
    * 12-round may be useful for some other upcoming standards (with different round constants)
* Would using the "matrix" registers to store and operate on the Keccack state solve the problem ? (spec under definition)
    * Would require connecting to the AMF (Attached Matrix Facility) since IMF (integrated) relies on vector registers


Markku will prepare some technical material to review the possibilities (target: Jan 4th 2024).



# Vector crypto fast track

Fast track has been approved. Next step is a presentation to the Tech Chair meeting to get plan reviewed and approved (currently targetting Dec 13th meeting)

