Minutes of RISC-V crypto task group(s) meeting of dec 12th 2024

# Presents
 [joined before call to order]
 
Al Martin (Akeana),
Barry Spinney (Individual),
Luis Fiolhais (Individual),
Markku-Juhani Saarinen (Tampere),
Nicolas Brunie (SiFive),
G. Richard Newell (Microchip Technology),
Tolga Yalcin (Qualcomm)

 [joined after call to order]


Meeting minutes are captured (but not saved) on RISC-V recommended etherpad: 
https://tech.riscv.org/etherpad/p/crypto-tg-2024-nov-7

Last meeting minutes: https://github.com/riscv-admin/post-quantum-cryptography/pull/27 (PR for approval)


10:04 (Pacific) Disclosure were viewed
10:05 meeting call to order

All members present at the start of the meeting also attended 2 of the past 3 meetings. We have 7 participating members.

No motion to change the agenda.

Minutes are unanimously approved: https://github.com/riscv-admin/post-quantum-cryptography/blob/main/meetings/2024-12-05.md

# Discussion on new meeting rule policies
- Clarification of rules of order
- Richard queried the RVIA staff and go directed to the actual policy: https://lf-riscv.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/TCXX/pages/43253772/2024-11-20+Official+Meeting+Notes
https://lf-riscv.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/TCXX/pages/43253772/2024-11-20+Official+Meeting+Notes#:~:text=RISC-,%2D,-V%20Policies%20Procedures
- Review of paragraph B regarding "Members and Voting Rights of Technical Committees" (and in particular who can vote and how voting rights are gained and lost)

Members need to decide if they want to be participating or observing

BS's Q: Why would anyone not want to be a participating member ? (RN: for agenda or unique representation of organization reasons)


Requesting people to select the type of membership they want:
Al Martin (Akeana), => participating member
Barry Spinney (Individual),  => participating member
Luis Fiolhais (Individual),  => participating member
Markku-Juhani Saarinen (Tampere),  => participating member
Nicolas Brunie (SiFive),  => participating member
G. Richard Newell (Microchip Technology),  => participating member
Tolga Yalcin (Qualcomm),  => participating member

# Industry news: 
- European Cyber Resilience Act CRA scope covering all components (end product) that can compute and be connected (even temporarily) [medical, vehicle, plane, national security / defense / classified are not covered by CRA which have other requirements]. Security classes definitions (including req for self / external assessment)
- Some EU countries (inc Finland) do not have a single Common Criteria lab
- For elements to be in scope, the connection does not need to be direct, it could happen indirectly through other relays (and be impacted by secure boot and live cycle updates requirement)

- NIST opened up SP800 56-(A/B/C) for public comments (https://csrc.nist.gov/News/2024/public-comments-requested-on-the-sp-800-56-subseri)

- Google announced the Willow quantum processor (improved error correction): https://blog.google/technology/research/google-willow-quantum-chip/ [seems to have been caught by some marketing frenzy but achievements are interesting]

# Report of the CETG

- ARC has mentioned in their last meeting minutes (Dec 3rd 2024) that they are granting their approval to the Zvbc32e and Zvkgs specifications (next spec should be public review)

> Reviewed the updated Zvbc32e and Zvkgs fast track vector crypto extensions (reflecting the prior round of arch review and feedback).
Two items of further feedback to be provided:
The spec should be split into two separate standalone extension specs - that become two separate chapters in the Unpriv spec.
The behavior for when EGW != 4 should be explicitly specified - as reserved.
With expectation that these two changes will be made shortly, official AR approval is granted once they have been made.  (Between the meeting and now, these two changes have been made, so official AR approval is granted.)


# Report of the HACTG

Richard: Is qualcomm ready to open their proposal ?
Tolga: Roberto in India for Asia crypt so delay, expected to share ASAP

No progress on the proof of concept side


# Report of the PQCTG

- PQ Code package: https://github.com/pq-code-package: https://pqca.org/
- Could use some contributions for RVV port (currently plan of scalar RISC-V optimization)


# New business and next meeting

- Markku: Motion to break up for the holidays and meet-up again on January 2nd 2025
Nicolas seconds the motion


Luis => Hi
Al => Ney
Tolga => Hi
Nicolas => Hi
Markku => HI
No abstention

Motion carries: next meeting will be January 2nd 2025

Adjournment

Meeting is adjourned at 10:52 (Pacific) by acclamation
