Minutes of RISC-V crypto task group(s) meeting of November 21st

# Presents

Al Martin (Akeana),
Luis Fiolhais (Individual)
Nicolas Brunie (SiFive),
Radhakrishna Giduthuri (Individual),
G. Richard Newell (Microchip Technology),
Tolga Yalcin (Qualcomm)


Meeting minutes are captured (but not saved) on RISC-V recommended etherpad: https://tech.riscv.org/etherpad/p/crypto

# Useful links

- Group meeting minutes: https://github.com/riscv-admin/post-quantum-cryptography/tree/main/meetings
- crypto extension mailing list: https://lists.riscv.org/g/tech-crypto-ext

# Misc

- RVIA TG meeting policy is changing: we will need to enforce Robert's rules (clear agenda, membership tracking, votes ...)

Task group roadmap
- At the moment working on HAC (High Assurance Cryptography) and PQC 
   - PQC TG focuses on Dilithium and Kyber acceleration on RISC-V (Vector)
   - HAC focuses on specifying cryptographic primitives which can be protected against side channel attacks
- groups would like to converge to spec submissions in 2025 

- The proof of concepts that Barry is working on is open source

Richard is suggesting that the 3-group crypto TG meetings may not be well suited for strict application of Robert's rules. 
- Publishing a regular agenda should not be too difficult


Next week (Nov 28th) is Thanksgiving in the US, the meeting will be cancelled
The next meeting will be Dec 5th 2024
- proposal for agenda to be sent one week in advance
    - elect chair and secretary

# Post-Quantum Cryptography


# High Assurance Cryptography 

- Some members are working on their own (undisclosed) version of High Assurance cryptography and would like to ensure that their proposal are going to align with what RVIA will suggest

# fast track extensions

- Reached out to Rafael Sene who helps us get the vector crypto fast track back under ARC radar
