Minutes of RISC-V crypto task group(s) meeting of March 7th 2024

# Presents

Al Martin (Akeana),
Barry Spinney (Individual member),
Hammad (10xEngineers),
Jeff Scheel (RISC-V),
Luis Fiolhais (SemiDynamics),
Markku-Juhani Saarinen (Tampere),
Nicolas Brunie (SiFive),
Tolga Yalcin (Qualcomm),
Victor Lu (Individual member)


Meeting minutes are captured (but not saved) on RISC-V recommended etherpad: https://tech.riscv.org/etherpad/p/crypto

Last meeting (Feb 29th 2024) minutes: https://github.com/riscv-admin/post-quantum-cryptography/blob/main/meetings/2024-02-29.md

RVIA meeting disclaimers video (version 2): https://drive.google.com/drive/u/0/folders/1hzoPukaf5I-r12kdjpMY5KetoYfvHeCb

Meeting was started at 10:00am (Pacific) with the disclosures.

# Post-Quantum Cryptography

working on best way to implement the NTT

# High Assurance Cryptography 

Discussing Markku's proposal "a simplified hac-style aes proposal for a poc" (send on the mailing list)
- Key handles are internal and system specific. Their may not be much use into offering a serializing mechanism / KEK is not part of the handle
- Handles are very specific use, so some identifiers may be superfluous. It does not need that much metadata
- Do Handles need crypto checksum to protect against unwarranted re-use ?
    - Handles cannot be used to address key bundles on another system  
- What about same system reboot / VM snapshot and resume / handles leaking across processes, VMs
- What should be the behavior on a bad handle ?
- Generally key wrappers are deterministic (no Nonce)
- Use case for handle cache (expanded version of one or more keys) => tradeoff cache size / expansion latency [Wrap-V wrapping could be 300-400 cycles, unwrapping could be much faster]


Barry's made progress on the spec for Wrap-V implementation.
Need some discussion between Richard/Barry/Marrku to review scheme.


# fast track extensions

Preparing to share  the new version of the fast track specification to RVIA at large. This step would kick-off the internal review.

# Misc


Meeting was ended at 10:52am (Pacific).
next meeting March 14th 2024
