Minutes of RISC-V crypto task group(s) meeting of dec 5th 2024

# Presents

Barry Spinney (Individual),
Luis Fiolhais (Individual),
Markku-Juhani Saarinen (Tampere),
Nicolas Brunie (SiFive),
G. Richard Newell (Microchip Technology),
Tolga Yalcin (Qualcomm)

Radhakrishna Giduthuri (Individual) [joined after call to order]


Meeting minutes are captured (but not saved) on RISC-V recommended etherpad: 
https://tech.riscv.org/etherpad/p/crypto-tg-2024-nov-7

Last meeting minutes: https://github.com/riscv-admin/post-quantum-cryptography/blob/main/meetings/2024-11-21.md

Meeting called to order at 10:05 (AM, Pacific)
10:05 (Pacific) Disclosure were viewed

- Discussing setup of Robert's rules of order for the meeting.
- meeting is only attended by RVIA members (either individually or through their employers)
- Richard N. is proposing that the meeting is kept common to all crypto task groups (general crypto, PQC, HAC)
- Richard suggests applying Robert's rules of order with some adaptations since the group is general very small
- Discussion on the history of Robert's rules and their origins

Richard declares himself acting chair (until we have a vote) and appoints Nicolas as acting secretary.

Richard moves that we start the agenda and call the 3 meetings to order.

Quorum call
all members except Barry attended at least one meeting in the past two instances. The quorum is formed by Richard, Luis, Markku, Tolga and Nicolas.

Richard moves that we consider the voting quorum as 50% of participating members to the group meetings (not 50% of RVIA members).

Marrku moved to accept the agenda, Nicolas seconds the motions.

Richard is questioning the voting rules (exclusion once someone missed a vote).
Richard suggests that in the short term, everybody votes and will be calling for abstention so everyone can keep being voting members until voting rule is clarified.

Richard calls for a vote to accept the agenda:
Markku, Luis, Tolga, Nicolas approved the agenda.
The motion carries.

Richard calls for a vote to accept the last meeting minutes (posted by Nicolas as anwser to the agenda email). https://github.com/riscv-admin/post-quantum-cryptography/blob/main/meetings/2024-11-21.md
Nicolas moves to approve the minutes, Markku seconds it.
Markku, Luis, Tolga, Nicolas approved the agenda.
The motion carries.

Richard presents the motion to formalize the joint meeting.
Nicolas seconds the motion.
Richard call for a vote of the motion
Markku, Luis, Tolga, Nicolas approved the motion.
The motion carries.

The meeting will be a joint meeting (crypto, HAC, PQC) moving forward.

Presiding office nomation

Discussing about wether this role must be held by a chair or vice-chair of one of the TGs.
Marrku moves to nominate Richard as presiding officer
Luis seconds the motion.
No other nominations.
Richard suggests we move to a vote.
Markku, Luis, Tolga, Nicolas voted in favor of the the motion.
The motion carries.
Richard takes office immediately.

Richard suggests we have a vice-chair (to take over when Richard cannot join)
Richard calls for nomination.
Luis nominates Markku.
No other nominations.
Richard suggests we move to a vote and call for unanimous acclamation.
No vote against.
The motion carries.
Markku takes office immediately

Richard opens nominations for presiding secretary
Luis nominates Nicolas who accepts the nomination.
No other nominations.
Richard suggests we move to a vote and call for unanimous acclamation.
No vote against.
The motion carries.
Nicolas takes office immediately.


Announcements
Industry news
- NVIDIA announced PQC library https://developer.nvidia.com/blog/introducing-nvidia-cupqc-for-gpu-accelerated-post-quantum-cryptography/
- Markku is questioning where this would be used (as GPU is a shared resource, which may have some latency, although throughput is impressive)
- Adam's bridge : Chips Alliance https://github.com/chipsalliance/Caliptra 2.0 implementation of Dilithium (very large but functional): https://techcommunity.microsoft.com/blog/azureconfidentialcomputingblog/adams-bridge-an-accelerator-for-post-quantum-resilient-cryptography/4269585, Markku has analyzed the block. monolithic memory block (not related to ISA extension) for SoC root of trust.
- Discussion on hybrid schemes of ECC + PQC (e.g. ECDH + ML-KEM) combination of standard and PQC assets, NIST is commenting that his could be considered compliant with clear metadata indication of the order of operations
- NIST PQC transition document: https://csrc.nist.gov/pubs/ir/8547/ipd (from 2035 RSA and Elliptic curve will be disallowed, and deprecated from 2030). In Europe, government is mandating hybrid scheme at this time.
- rapid adoption of new standard: X25519MLKEM768  (Markku could you complete here ?); https://pq.cloudflareresearch.com/


# Report of CETG Fast track

ARC feedback received on fast track proposal, mostly ok with some request changes (chapter split and clarification of reserved behavior). Nicolas is implementing the feedback and will make a new submission Dec 5th

# Report of HAC TG

Meeting with Qualcomm, that intend to become much more active in the TG.
Qualcomm has an advanced proposal (including OS interface).

Barry has been busy elsewhere and has no progress to report.

# Report of PQC

Markku working with NIST to get the test vectors working on his reference implementation.
Markku intends to start the specification work shortly.

# New business

Markku: Is there any upcoming RISC-V events ?
Richard: Is there any events we should participate in ?

until Jan 17th to update signature proposals for NIST 2nd round https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-kwiatkowski-tls-ecdhe-mlkem/02/


10:54 Richard moves to adjournment
10:54 meeting is adjourned 

# Useful links

- Group meeting minutes: https://github.com/riscv-admin/post-quantum-cryptography/tree/main/meetings
- crypto extension mailing list: https://lists.riscv.org/g/tech-crypto-ext
