Minutes of RISC-V crypto task group(s) meeting of July 11th 2024

# Presents

Allen Baum (Esperanto),
Al Martin (Akeana),
Andrea Gallo (RISC-V),
Luis Fiolhais (SemiDynamics),
Nicolas Brunie (SiFive),
Markku-Juhani Saarinen (Tampere),
G. Richard Newell (Microchip Technology),
Tolga Yalcin (Qualcomm),
Victor Lu (Individual),


Meeting minutes are captured (but not saved) on RISC-V recommended etherpad: https://tech.riscv.org/etherpad/p/crypto

# Misc

- discussing submission for RISC-V North America summit: HCA
- duplicating instructions specification (in ISA manual and SAIL): https://github.com/riscv/riscv-isa-manual/issues/1518
- RISC-V certification effort (nothing specific mentioned for crypto)
https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1rNLc76eczGvBrJ-S7UwVK_FuFNUsLpKC3EHGH5oEHa0/edit#slide=id.g272da6969b6_0_326

![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/bee92d33-9427-4895-b7d4-911d12615189)


# Post-Quantum Cryptography

- benchmarking on 3 vector platforms (including FPGA with vector crypto)
- keccak benefits more from superscalar than vector
     - still waiting on the NIST PQC standards to be ratified (should be done this month) (FIPS 203/204/205)
     
# High Assurance Cryptography 

- Informal discussion being organized around the spec and the prototype

# fast track extensions

- no progress to report this week
