Minutes of RISC-V crypto task group(s) meeting of April 11th 2024

# Presents

Barry Spinney (Individual),
Greg Favor (Ventana),
Luis Fiolhais (SemiDynamics),
Nicolas Brunie (SiFive),
G. Richard Newell (Microchip Technology),
Tolga Yalcin (Qualcomm),
Yann Loisel (SiFive),


Meeting minutes are captured (but not saved) on RISC-V recommended etherpad: https://tech.riscv.org/etherpad/p/crypto

# Misc

- RSA panel "RISC-V and embedded security", May 8th at 1:15pm
- Next meeting will be April 18th 2024
- Still some missing items post-ratification for vector crypto (check vector SAIL dependency with Jeff)
- Scalar and vector crypto specs have been merged into the unpriv spec, some internal reference issues may remain (https://github.com/riscv/riscv-isa-manual/blob/main/src/scalar-crypto.adoc and https://github.com/riscv/riscv-isa-manual/blob/main/src/vector-crypto.adoc)

# Post-Quantum Cryptography

- FIPS 203/204/205
    - NIST planning to release all 3 by end of Summer 2024
    - Slides showing Kyber / Dilithium / Sphinx+ most recent changes (including tiny change breaking compatibility for the first two)
    - https://csrc.nist.gov/events/2024/fifth-pqc-standardization-conference
    - Domain separation and pre-hashing (hashing full message or message hash)
- new quantum LWE paper https://eprint.iacr.org/2024/555.pdf
      - some version of parameters for Kyber and Dilithium might be vulnerable to Quantum Computer
      - Community is still figuring out the impact of this discovery on PQC
      - No impact on the Keccak instruction, might impact NTT acceleration if some parameters need to be updated     


# High Assurance Cryptography 

- Discussion on-going around the proof of concept
     - no much change except on the key handle (might be renamed to "key reference")
     - when keys are loaded into cache and unwrapped, the core will return the handle, that would be later used in the operations (as a reference to the key)
     - How to distinguish handle/reference user ? suggestion to Satp (page table root)
     - Need fast way to distinguish processes
     - Need to check which CSRs could be used for that purpose (Luis F.)
     
    - Need to take up the discussion with the security HC 
    - write down requirement for a proposal to the security HC
    - key unrolling, key life cycle
    

# fast track extensions

- Experimenting around multi-width carry-less multiply to decide whether more than 32-bit option should be offered in Zvbc32e
