Minutes of RISC-V crypto task group(s) meeting of October 10th, 2024

# Presents

Al Martin (Akeana),
Allen Baum (Esperanto),
Barry Spinney (Individual),
Luis Fiolhais (SemiDynamics)
Markku-Juhani Saarinen (Tampere),
Nicolas Brunie (SiFive),
G. Richard Newell (Microchip Technology),

# Useful links

- Group meeting minutes: https://github.com/riscv-admin/post-quantum-cryptography/tree/main/meetings
- crypto extension mailing list: https://lists.riscv.org/g/tech-crypto-ext

Meeting minutes are captured (but not saved) on RISC-V recommended etherpad: https://tech.riscv.org/etherpad/p/crypto

# Misc

- clarifying vector crypto spec on LMUL alignment constraints: 
https://lists.riscv.org/g/tech-crypto-ext/topic/clarifying_vector_register/108663033
- Spec clarification and fixing bug in spike (leading to segfault) + clarification vector-scalar register index constraints for element groups
- vector crypto SAIL model never merged (dependency if the fix described above is merged)

Zkt/Zvkt/Svukte: is there a way to test compliance in the ACTs ?
- Svukte https://github.com/riscv/riscv-isa-manual/pull/1564 [discussion around the meaning of the new extension]
- This requires a data / latency correlation as there is no expectation of constant time, only data independent time: latency can still vary (at long as it is uncorrelated from the data)

# Post-Quantum Cryptography

# High Assurance Cryptography 

# fast track extensions

fast track
- ARC feedback has been implemented, finishing some experiments before submitting new versions
- Adding back 8b and 16b variants in Zvbc32e
- Discussing around naming the extension
- AM: Should we consider the scalar variant of 8-bit and 16-bit CLM ?
    - Possibly but there will be a large opcode code that may be difficult to justify and this will not be bundle as part of the fast track effort which targets bridging the gaps left during vector crypto ratification
