Minutes of RISC-V crypto task group(s) meeting of January 9th 2025

# Presents

Andrew Dellow (Qualcomm),
Barry (individual),
Luis Fiolhais (Individual),
Markku-Juhani Saarinen (Tampere),
Nicolas Brunie (SiFive),
Paul Sherman (Individual),
G. Richard Newell (Microchip Technology),

Meeting minutes are captured (but not saved) on RISC-V recommended etherpad: https://tech.riscv.org/etherpad/p/crypto

# Useful links

- Group meeting minutes: https://github.com/riscv-admin/post-quantum-cryptography/tree/main/meetings
- crypto extension mailing list: https://lists.riscv.org/g/tech-crypto-ext

# Misc

Meeting started at 7:03PM (CET)

Agenda approved at 7:05PM
Last meeting minutes approved at 7:05PM
https://github.com/riscv-admin/post-quantum-cryptography/blob/main/meetings/2025-01-02.md


CRA WG: several members following-up (in particular WG4)
NIST SP800-277 "Recommendation for Key-Encapsulation Mechanisms"
[LF: Nice document, should be checked against FIPS 204 implementation]
Any other news

Discussion around the fact that CETG should be transformed into a SIG
(The TSC has not formally closed the TG)

the security HC will need to make a request to the TSC (with 3 sponsoring companies)
Will need to draft Charter (actions for Richard and Markku): tracking industry trends, new techniques and algorithms, ...

# High Assurance Cryptography 

Roberto (Qualcomm) will present the Qualcomm proposal next week + update on NIST wide AES (256-bit block)

Discussion on AES wide implementation (Markku's feedback on possibility to support it with current RISC-V vector support)
- It might be useful to accelerate some particular permutes done through vrgather (we need a way to detect the permutation)

Barry working on recovery of proof of concept

# Post-Quantum Cryptography

Nothing to add

# fast track extensions

Nothing to report this week

Next meeting will be January 16th
Meeting is adjourned at 7:37PM CET
