
Minutes of RISC-V crypto task group(s) meeting of January 2nd 2025

# Presents
Andrew Dellow (Qualcomm),
Barry (individual),
Cay Blomqvist (individual),
Luis Fiolhais (Individual),
Markku-Juhani Saarinen (Tampere),
Nicolas Brunie (SiFive),
G. Richard Newell (Microchip Technology),
Tolga Yalcin (Qualcomm)



Meeting minutes are captured (but not saved) on RISC-V recommended etherpad: https://tech.riscv.org/etherpad/p/crypto

# Useful links

- Group meeting minutes: https://github.com/riscv-admin/post-quantum-cryptography/tree/main/meetings
- crypto extension mailing list: https://lists.riscv.org/g/tech-crypto-ext

# Misc

last week minutes https://github.com/riscv-admin/post-quantum-cryptography/pull/28/files


Running the disclosure at 7:03PM (CET)

# Agenda

Shared by Richard (by email) on January 1st 

 Call to Order
 Quorum Call
o Roll call of voting members (Nicolas)
 Review/Approve Agenda
 Approve previous meeting minutes (from Dec. 12, 2024)
 Announcements
o Industry news and similar announcements
 CRA WG
 Report of the CETG
o Status of the fast-track ISEs (Nicolas)
 Report of the HACTG
o Status of the HAC ISE (Richard &amp; Qualcom, if ready)
o Status of the reference design (Barry)
 Report of the PQCTG
o Status of the PQ ISE (Markku)
 New Business
 Next meeting (Agenda items, date)
 Adjournment

Andrew and Cay have not been attending any of the past 3 meetings 
All other attendees have been.

Agenda approved at 7:07pm

Last meeting minutes https://github.com/riscv-admin/post-quantum-cryptography/pull/28/files
Approved at 7:09PM

# industry announcement

- Cyber Resiliency Act (follow-up to last meeting discussion)
      - Markku has joined CENELEC a european working group associated with the CRA: 47X (as Finland national representative)
     - Of interest for RISC-V (although no direct impact to the ISA)
    - https://standards.cencenelec.eu/dyn/www/f?p=305:29:0::::FSP_ORG_ID,FSP_LANG_ID:3289823,25&cs=1CA866A799781063889C55649448B0B94#1
    - CRA requirements will fall down to the microprocessor (and so CRA has microprocessor focused working groups)
    - They also have FPGA specific working groups
    - EUCC

- NIST officially asking for comment on wider AES (256-bit block size) https://csrc.nist.gov/News/2024/nist-proposes-to-standardize-wider-variant-of-aes (Rijndael)
    - Markku suggested to send a comment for RISC-V: suggesting that both scalar and vector crypto extensions should be able to support this wider variant [this would only apply to single round versions, HAC would need new instructions for all-round]
    - per-Block it adds a byte shuffle
    - key schedule is completely unmodified (which might actually be a cryptography issue)

# fast track extensions

https://lf-riscv.atlassian.net/browse/RVS-1915

- ARC review is done, spec has been approved (to get to the next spec)
- Working on spec, opcodes, and isa-sim implementations, next: compiler support, proof of concept
- May need a discussion on the SAIL implementation as it would need the vector crypto spec which was never merged into spec
- TODO: add a vote to the meeting agenda once Freeze milestones is within reach

# High Assurance Cryptography 

- Qualcomm is eager to present their proposal but is not ready yet
- Side meetings have shown that Richard's proposal and Qualcomm proposal are very close

- Barry has encountered some technical issues with the dev environment of the PoC and his looking at solution to restore working environment 


# Post-Quantum Cryptography


- no progress to report 
- Markky "makes a solemn" promises to start the work on the spec
- looking at litterature on PQC implementation (including a monolithic accelerator with low interest for ISA development with some side-channel protection claims although secret keys are in plaintext)
- Open Titan looking at OTBN (256-bit variant of RISC-V) https://opentitan.org/book/hw/ip/otbn/

# New Business

Andrew: need distinction between official meetings (with voting) and ordinary meetings (like today, discussion only)
The TGs will need to flag voting meetings specifically so people can make an extra effort to attend and keep their voting rights.
The difference should be clear in the group atlassian (Jira) space with different populated templates


Call for next week agenda items

Meeting is adjourned at 7:40PM (CET)
